# Banks_incentive_offers
This project aims to understand what factors drive banks to use dollar incentive offers (e.g., a $200 bonus for depositing $3,000) to attract deposits. Two examples are given in the links below: 
https://www.bankrate.com/banking/best-bank-account-bonuses/#checking-citibank
https://www.bankrate.com/banking/best-bank-account-bonuses/#checking-bmo

# Datasets:
The data is unavailable but is described in detail below.
(A)	A dataset including banks’ promotional offers, named “DatasetA.csv”
We have three identifiers in the dataset, Primary Company (which is often a bank), Campaign ID, and Observation ID. For each Primary Company, there might be multiple Campaigns in a month. Within each Campaign, there could be multiple incentives. For example:
Primary Company     Campaign ID       	          Incentive Text    	Observation ID
Bank A                    	Campaign a              	Incentive 1               	1
Bank A                    	Campaign a              	Incentive 2               	2
Bank A                    	Campaign b              	Incentive 3               	3
(B)	A dataset including banks’ quarterly financial variables, named “DatasetB.csv”. You do not need to make use of all the variables.

# Summary:
 This study aims to investigate the factors that drive banks to utilize incentive offers to attract deposits. Incentive offers are characterized by two main variables: the dollar amount of the bonus and the required deposit amount. To achieve this objective, two datasets consisting of banks’ incentive text and their quarterly financial variables are provided. To match the bank names of different formats in the two datasets, I utilize the FuzzyWuzzy package to calculate the similarity scores, match those with the highest score if the score is above threshold 0.9 and verify that the mapping is 1-1. A sample matching result is presented in Table 1, where the "bankA" column contains lower case bank names in dataset A and "convert_above_threshold" contains corresponding lower case bank names in dataset B. This method matches 499 out of 1023 (48.8%) unique bank names in dataset A and 5549 out of 11182 (49.6%) campaigns. The unmatched names are either not found in dataset B or contain ambiguous information.
 
To extract possible factors affecting the two response variables, correlation matrix analysis of the dependent variables using the merged data frame is performed, and most pairs have correlation coefficients higher than 0.5, as shown in Fig 1. Subsequently, the Variance Inflation Factor is computed to screen out variables highly collinear with other variables. Using the selected variables (VIF<10) in Table 2, linear regressions are performed for bonus and deposit dependent variables, respectively.

The results in Table 3 indicate that the statistically significant variables (p<0.1) for the bonus regression model include "cash", "domdepservicecharges", "nbranch", and "netinc". When a bank has more cash, lower service charges on domestic deposits, a greater number of branches, and lower net income, it tends to offer a higher bonus. The residual histogram in Fig 2 and the q-q plot in Fig 3 suggest that residuals generally follow a normal distribution, indicating a good fit of the linear model to the bonus data. Moreover, the statistically significant variables (p<0.1) for the deposit regression model include "cash", "domdepservicecharges", "netinc", and "domdepservicecharges" as shown in Table 4. When a bank has more cash, lower service charges on domestic deposits, lower uninsured time deposits, and more net income, it tends to require a higher deposit. Similarly, Fig 4 and Fig 5 indicate a good fit of the linear model to the deposit variable. The high positive correlation of 0.63 between bonus and deposit shows that a higher bonus corresponds to a higher deposit required, which is also consistent with the previous result that they share three common factors.
However, a limitation of the utilization of linear regression is that observations are not entirely independent for campaigns of the same bank and in the same period. Future studies could include these factors as dummy explanatory variables or utilize other non-linear models to achieve better fitting results. Furthermore, the current explanatory variables only include bank financial variables, and certain macroeconomic variables may also be significant in stimulating banks’ bonus incentives. Specific assumptions about processing data are shown in the comments of the code.
